# Data summary

Data were collected from two decision aid repositories: the [Ottawa
Hospital Research Institute (OHRI) Patient Decision
Aid](https://decisionaid.ohri.ca/) library and the [Mayo Clinic’s
Knowledge and Evaluation Research Unit
(Mayo)](https://www.mayo.edu/research/labs/knowledge-evaluation-research-unit/overview).
Jointly, the libraries contain 308 decision aids. Researchers filtered
out decision aids that have inactive links. Additionally, decision aids
were excluded if they are not available in English, resulting in a
sample of size of 262.

The resulting sample of decision aids were creating overwhelmingly by
one developer, Healthwise. Healthwise represents 58.8% of the data
subset. The developer that represents the second largest proportion of
the sample is Mayo Clinic (9.9%).

## Health Conditions

The decision aids database includes a diverse set of health conditions
(n = 130), that vary from life-threatening illnesses such as cancer,
temporary health situations such as pregnancy and behavioral health
choices such as contraception. The term *health condition* is used to
communicate a state of health that deviates for a health norm. Health
conditions vary widely, encompassing states of health such as pregnancy
as well as diseases such as depression and heart disease. Diseases,
disorders, and syndromes are a subset of conditions (n = 112). Of the
130 conditions represented in the data, 33 can be categorized as chronic
conditions under the [Centers for Medicaid and Medicare’s classification
system](https://www.cms.gov/Research-Statistics-Data-and-Systems/Statistics-Trends-and-Reports/Chronic-Conditions/CC_Main).
